# Q1. What is Shell?👈️
the shell is simply a program that interprets the commands.
You type in your terminal and then it passes them on to the operating system.

Q2. What is Shell Script? 👈️
a shell script or script for short is just a file containing a series of commands that will be run by the shell.

Benefites Of Shell Script 👈️
Scripts can be automated to run at a specific date or time without you having to remember to run them.
that scripts make automating sets of commands very convenient, which saves you time
and makes you more productive.


Our bash script has 3 core components.They have a beginning, a middle and an end.👈️
The beginning of a bash script is the Shebang line, which tells the shell what type of script we are writing.
For bash, a shebang line will pretty much always be "#!/bin/bash".
The middle of a bash script is the commands.This is where the show actually happens.
And the more commands, you know, the more varied the scripts you can write.
But don't worry, we'll be covering a lot of useful commands in this course.
The end of a bash script is the exit code.
The exit code tells the Shell whether the script runs successfully or unsuccessfully.
Finally, you learned how to run your Bash scripts by giving them execute permissions with the "chmod +x our_first_script" command.



Professional touch to the script
To make your script more professional, you can include five pieces of information.
These are the author, The Date of Creation, The date the script was last modified, the script description and the script usage.

We use the usage area to let our users know if the script takes any options or whether it requires any command line arguments and so on.

you'll learn how to add comments to your scripts to clarify your code, as well as
how to add five pieces of information to your scripts to make them super professional. The Scripts Author Creation Date Last Modified Date Description and usage.


ls -l command info 👈️


drwxr-xr-x. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman  32 Jan 21 02:44 bash_course
drwxr-xr-x. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman   0 Dec 15 03:42 Desktop
drwxr-xr-x. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman  38 Jan 21 03:36 Documents
drwxr-xr-x. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman 232 Jan 20 16:58 Downloads
drwxr-xr-x. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman   0 Dec 15 03:42 Music
drwxr-xr-x. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman   0 Dec 15 03:42 Pictures
drwxr-xr-x. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman   0 Dec 15 03:42 Public
-rw-r--r--. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman 144 Jan 21 02:29 ShellScriptNotes.txt
drwxr-xr-x. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman   0 Dec 15 03:42 Templates
drwxr-xr-x. 1 sandipsuman sandipsuman   0 Dec 15 03:42 Videos

in all lines fist character either represents d or - , d means directory and - means file
next 3 character represents the owner(sandipsuman) permission for the file, if it is r (read permission, instead of r if it is - then it means no read permission), w (write permission instead of w if it is - then it means no write permission), x(execute permission instead of x if it is - then it means no execute permission), 
next 3 character represents permission for the the group "sandipsuman"
next 3 character represents the the user whicn does not represent the owner(sandipsuman) or  belong to group "sandipsuman"


👈️Now for Bash Scripts, it is recommended that unless there is a particular reason otherwise, only the file owner should have the ability to read, write and execute the file.Everyone else should only be able to read it.By not allowing anyone else to write to the script except the file owner. prevent others from making sneaky changes to the script without the file owner's knowledge. they did make these sneaky changes, then the file owner could end up running some code on their computer without knowing

"chmod 744 our_first_scriptOnly" Using this command the file owner has all permissions, whereas everyone else can only read the file.However, octal numbers(744 in chmod 744 our_first_scriptOnly command) can be a bit confusing to read.Fortunately, there's a useful website called permissions calculator.Org.Which makes them super easy to interpret.If we head over to permissions calculator.org, we can see that we are presented with a simple user.









